# LocalStatus

Automatically monitors the important parts of your local development environment. Not in a fancy way.
Just in a fifteen-year-old-Honda-Civic kind of way.

* Ping your local services
* Verify needed files exist
* Keep an eye on Git repos
* and more

This is a work in progress. Consider it version 0.1.

## Example (Aspirational)

The real output and config are similar to this, but not exactly the same. I'm still
figuring out the design.

```
$ localstatus
    6 checks to run...
OK  MySQL
OK  Redis
OK  API server
!   Env vars
OK  VPN connection
( exit code 1 )

$ localstatus --watch
    6 checks to run, every 3 minutes...
    (Enter to re-run, Ctrl-C to stop)
```

The configuration looks like this:

```toml
# ~/.config/localstatus.toml
checks = [
    {check = "tcp.open", address = "localhost:3306", label = "MySQL"},
    {check = "tcp.open", address = "localhost:6379", label = "Redis"},
    {check = "http.ok", url = "http://localhost:9000/api/ping", label = "API server"},
    {check = "env", variables_required = ["API_KEY", "ENVIRONMENT_MODE"]},
    {check = "http.ok", url = "https://corp.private.example.com", label = "VPN connection"},
]
```

## Installing

I intend to make this easy to install with Scoop and Homebrew, but it's not quite ready.
For now, download source code and run `go install`.

## Motivation / Rant

At work, my local development environment needs to be _just so._ I need to remember to connect to
the VPN, run the cloud storage emulator, and check the local status pages of about twelve
services in case one of them has a problem. I need to make sure my repositories aren't falling too
far behind my team, my database has the latest migrations, and I've run `npm install` since the
last update to `package.json`. And there are local files that need to exist even though they aren't
checked in to source control.

That's a lot of moving pieces, so of course, I created a tool to check them all for me.

Also, I'm just saddened by the trend I've been seeing with more and more systems only being runnable
in the cloud. If your system doesn't work locally, then you can't do anything when your Internet
goes down, or your cloud provider goes down, or your IT department can't get you access to something
right away. In other words, local development is a "cause" I believe in.

## Contributing

To show your interest, you can star the repository or send me a message via Mastodon.

I am open to bug reports in GitHub Issues. Please use Discussions for feature requests and general
discussions/questions/support. I am open to PRs. I'm not looking for other contributors right now.

To help "pay for" this project, consider purchasing the macOS/Windows companion apps.

## Disclosure

I'm creating this project because I think it needs to exist. I use something similar at work already.
But I'm also planning to create some paid macOS and Windows companion apps that will integrate with
LocalStatus. Those will most likely be closed source. I don't want to sell the project. My hope is
to create something of value that can earn some money.

This is my first open source project that I actually hope lots of people will use. But again, it's
my first, so please bear with me as I figure this out. 💛

## Trivia

- This project was almost named Brock, because GitHub generated a repo name of "friendly-broccoli."
- This project was almost named Checkmate, generated by ChatGPT.
- This project was almost named ldca, for Local Development is Cool Again.
- This project was almost named Local Host Checker, for the cool acronym LHC.
